Client Hyper-V.
Alright,
so the historical perspective here is that what we know now is Hyper-V in
Windows 10 and Windows Server started as an acquisition.
Microsoft bought a company called Connectix.
Connectix was known back in the 90s as a way to create a virtual machine.
Specifically,
Connectix made software for Mac users and they wanted to help the
market sector who ran Macs most of the time,
but they still needed access to Windows applications.
So Connectix figured out a way how to virtualize a PC,
a computer running Windows.
A virtual machine is simply an actual honest to goodness computer
that runs an operating system and applications,
but it shares its resources with the host.
So on a Mac, you might be physically on a Mac computer,
you start up virtual PC,
and you can create a virtual computer and install
Windows on it and it borrows RAM, disk space,
and network from, in this case, your Mac.
So that was the original use case.
Microsoft bought Connectix, turned it into Virtual PC,
that's meant for a consumer basically or a light business user.
The business version became Hyper-V and that's a very big product.
In fact,
I know many people who make their living doing virtualization
with Hyper-V so it's a very big platform.
Now what do we need to know about Hyper-V in Windows 10?
Why do we care that there is a Hyper-V for Windows 10?
I thought this is a business thing.
Well actually it is.
I mean, normally the way a business will work,
if they want to use Hyper-V to save money,
instead of having a physical rack filled with physical servers,
they can have the rack but with fewer physical servers and just
install Hyper-V and create virtual machines for the virtual
servers that they want to deploy.
It winds up being a big virtualization that is,
winds up being a big money saver for businesses.
And so, therefore,
Windows Server versions have historically had Hyper-V onboard by default.
Now Windows 10 is a client or desktop operating system
and you might think well are you going to host virtual
servers from a desktop Windows?
No, generally you're not going to, but Client Hyper-V does have a valid use case.
First of all, the requirements.
Client Hyper-V is available only on 64-bit versions of Windows 10 Pro,
Enterprise, or Education, those stock keeping units.
You're not going to get Client Hyper-V with the Home sku.
The use cases are officially compatibility with legacy applications.
Let's say at business your company has a web-based line of
business app that just will not run well with Edge.
Everybody has been upgraded to Windows 10 and they're
not able to access this application.
It could be that IT will deploy a virtual machine to each
user and they can start the virtual machine that runs an
older version of Windows in it, and therefore,
has an earlier version of Internet Explorer and you
can access that legacy application.
Admittedly, that's kind of a cumbersome, clumsy solution.
We have much better ones nowadays, but it's possible.
Development and testing is a bigger deal because your programmers are going
to be working with Windows 10 on their desktop and it's convenient for them
to have Hyper-V because they generally will need servers or virtual servers
available for their work and they don't want to use your production servers
and your data center because it's never a good idea to practice on
production environments.
Learning, this is another perfectly valid use case,
especially those of my students who are studying for Microsoft certifications.
Using Client Hyper-V in Windows 10 can be a great platform
for learning the ropes with virtualization.
Now as I said, other solutions exist besides Hyper-V.
In the Microsoft world specifically, that's what we'll limit ourselves to.
We have Hyper-V server that's built into Windows Server.
There is a separate standalone version of Hyper-V Server as well.
App-V is where you're virtualizing individual applications,
it's a more streamlined approach.
Instead of actually deploying a huge heavy virtual machine to each
user to use an old version of Internet Explorer,
for instance,
you can actually deploy that old Internet Explorer instance across the
network to each user and have it stream to their system.
It's quite elegant actually and there is other solutions.
In fact, there is other hypervisors.
Software that allows the virtual machines to be
created is called hypervisor software.
Hyper-V is Microsoft's product. If you've ever heard of VMware, their hypervisor is called ESXi.